docs/swarms/artifacts/artifact.md, before:

# `Artifact`

The `Artifact` class represents a file artifact, encapsulating the file's path, type, contents, versions, and edit count. This class provides a comprehensive way to manage file versions, edit contents, and handle various file-related operations such as saving, loading, and exporting to JSON.

The `Artifact` class is particularly useful in contexts where file version control and content management are essential. By keeping track of the number of edits and maintaining a version history, it allows for robust file handling and auditability.

## Class Definition

### Artifact


| Attribute   | Type                | Default Value    | Description                                      |
|-------------|---------------------|------------------|--------------------------------------------------|
| `file_path` | `str`               | N/A              | The path to the file.                            |
| `file_type` | `str`               | N/A              | The type of the file.                            |
| `contents`  | `str`               | `""`             | The contents of the file.                        |
| `versions`  | `List[FileVersion]` | `[]`             | The list of file versions.                       |
| `edit_count`| `int`               | `0`              | The number of times the file has been edited.    |

### Parameters and Validation

- `file_path`: A string representing the file path.
- `file_type`: A string representing the file type. This attribute is validated to ensure it matches supported file types based on the file extension if not provided.
- `contents`: A string representing the contents of the file. Defaults to an empty string.
- `versions`: A list of `FileVersion` instances representing the version history of the file. Defaults to an empty list.
- `edit_count`: An integer representing the number of edits made to the file. Defaults to 0.

### Methods

The `Artifact` class includes various methods for creating, editing, saving, loading, and exporting file artifacts.

#### `create`

| Parameter          | Type   | Description                            |
|--------------------|--------|----------------------------------------|
| `initial_content`  | `str`  | The initial content of the file.       |

**Usage Example:**

```python
artifact = Artifact(file_path="example.txt", file_type="txt")
artifact.create(initial_content="Initial file content")
```

#### `edit`


| Parameter     | Type   | Description                            |
|---------------|--------|----------------------------------------|
| `new_content` | `str`  | The new content of the file.           |

**Usage Example:**

```python
artifact.edit(new_content="Updated file content")
```

#### `save`

**Usage Example:**

```python
artifact.save()
```

#### `load`

**Usage Example:**

```python
artifact.load()
```

#### `get_version`


| Parameter         | Type  | Description                             |
|-------------------|-------|-----------------------------------------|
| `version_number`  | `int` | The version number to retrieve.         |

**Usage Example:**

```python
version = artifact.get_version(version_number=1)
```

#### `get_contents`

**Usage Example:**

```python
current_contents = artifact.get_contents()
```

#### `get_version_history`


**Usage Example:**

```python
version_history = artifact.get_version_history()
```

#### `export_to_json`


| Parameter   | Type  | Description                                  |
|-------------|-------|----------------------------------------------|
| `file_path` | `str` | The path to the JSON file to save the artifact.|

**Usage Example:**

```python
artifact.export_to_json(file_path="artifact.json")
```

#### `import_from_json`


| Parameter   | Type  | Description                                      |
|-------------|-------|--------------------------------------------------|
| `file_path` | `str` | The path to the JSON file to import the artifact from.|

**Usage Example:**

```python
imported_artifact = Artifact.import_from_json(file_path="artifact.json")
```

#### `get_metrics`

**Usage Example:**

```python
metrics = artifact.get_metrics()
```

#### `to_dict`

**Usage Example:**

```python
artifact_dict = artifact.to_dict()
```

#### `from_dict`

| Parameter | Type             | Description                                      |
|-----------|------------------|--------------------------------------------------|
| `data`    | `Dict[str, Any]` | The dictionary representation of the artifact.   |

**Usage Example:**

```python
artifact_data = {
    "file_path": "example.txt",
    "file_type": "txt",
    "contents": "File content",
    "versions": [],
    "edit_count": 0
}
artifact = Artifact.from_dict(artifact_data)
```

## Additional Information and Tips

- The `Artifact` class uses the `pydantic` library to handle data validation and serialization.
- When editing the artifact, ensure that the `file_path` is set correctly to avoid file operation errors.
- Use the `get_version` and `get_version_history` methods to maintain a clear audit trail of changes to the file.
- The `export_to_json` and `import_from_json` methods are useful for backing up and restoring the state of an artifact.

## References and Resources

- [Pydantic Documentation](https://pydantic-docs.helpmanual.io/)
- [Python os.path module](https://docs.python.org/3/library/os.path.html)
- [JSON Documentation](https://docs.python.org/3/library/json.html)

## Examples of Usage

### Example 1: Creating and Editing an Artifact

```python
from datetime import datetime
from pydantic import BaseModel, Field, validator
from typing import List, Dict, Any, Union
import os
import json

# Define FileVersion class
class FileVersion(BaseModel):
    version_number: int
    content: str
    timestamp: datetime

# Artifact class definition goes here

# Create an artifact
artifact = Artifact(file_path="example.txt", file_type="txt")
artifact.create(initial_content="Initial file content")

# Edit the artifact
artifact.edit(new_content="Updated file content")

# Save the artifact to a file
artifact.save()

# Load the artifact from the file
artifact.load()

# Print the current contents of the artifact
print(artifact.get_contents())

# Print the version history
print(artifact.get_version_history())
```

### Example 2: Exporting and Importing an Artifact

```python
# Export the artifact to a JSON file
artifact.export_to_json(file_path="artifact.json")

# Import

 the artifact from a JSON file
imported_artifact = Artifact.import_from_json(file_path="artifact.json")

# Print the metrics of the imported artifact
print(imported_artifact.get_metrics())
```

### Example 3: Converting an Artifact to and from a Dictionary

```python
# Convert the artifact to a dictionary
artifact_dict = artifact.to_dict()

# Create a new artifact from the dictionary
new_artifact = Artifact.from_dict(artifact_dict)

# Print the metrics of the new artifact
print(new_artifact.get_metrics())
```

Commit message:

Update docs for new tyoes support
updated docs to reflect on the changes in the types of artifact support .

docs/swarms/artifacts/artifact.md, after:

# `Artifact`

The `Artifact` class represents a file artifact, encapsulating the file's path, type, contents, versions, and edit count. This class provides a comprehensive way to manage file versions, edit contents, and handle various file-related operations such as saving, loading, and exporting to JSON.

The `Artifact` class is particularly useful in contexts where file version control and content management are essential. By keeping track of the number of edits and maintaining a version history, it allows for robust file handling and auditability.

## Class Definition

### Artifact


| Attribute   | Type                | Default Value    | Description                                      |
|-------------|---------------------|------------------|--------------------------------------------------|
| `file_path` | `str`               | N/A              | The path to the file.                            |
| `file_type` | `str`               | N/A              | The type of the file.                            |
| `contents`  | `str`               | `""`             | The contents of the file.                        |
| `versions`  | `List[FileVersion]` | `[]`             | The list of file versions.                       |
| `edit_count`| `int`               | `0`              | The number of times the file has been edited.    |

### Parameters and Validation

- `file_path`: A string representing the file path.
- `file_type`: A string representing the file type. This attribute is validated to ensure it matches supported file types based on the file extension if not provided.
- `contents`: A string representing the contents of the file. Defaults to an empty string.
- `versions`: A list of `FileVersion` instances representing the version history of the file. Defaults to an empty list.
- `edit_count`: An integer representing the number of edits made to the file. Defaults to 0.

### Methods

The `Artifact` class includes various methods for creating, editing, saving, loading, and exporting file artifacts.

#### `create`

| Parameter          | Type   | Description                            |
|--------------------|--------|----------------------------------------|
| `initial_content`  | `str`  | The initial content of the file.       |

**Usage Example:**

```python
artifact = Artifact(file_path="example.txt", file_type="txt")
artifact.create(initial_content="Initial file content")
```
The file type parameter supports the following file types: `.txt`, `.md`, `.py`, `.pdf`.
#### `edit`


| Parameter     | Type   | Description                            |
|---------------|--------|----------------------------------------|
| `new_content` | `str`  | The new content of the file.           |

**Usage Example:**

```python
artifact.edit(new_content="Updated file content")
```

#### `save`

**Usage Example:**

```python
artifact.save()
```

#### `load`

**Usage Example:**

```python
artifact.load()
```

#### `get_version`


| Parameter         | Type  | Description                             |
|-------------------|-------|-----------------------------------------|
| `version_number`  | `int` | The version number to retrieve.         |

**Usage Example:**

```python
version = artifact.get_version(version_number=1)
```

#### `get_contents`

**Usage Example:**

```python
current_contents = artifact.get_contents()
```

#### `get_version_history`


**Usage Example:**

```python
version_history = artifact.get_version_history()
```

#### `export_to_json`


| Parameter   | Type  | Description                                  |
|-------------|-------|----------------------------------------------|
| `file_path` | `str` | The path to the JSON file to save the artifact.|

**Usage Example:**

```python
artifact.export_to_json(file_path="artifact.json")
```

#### `import_from_json`


| Parameter   | Type  | Description                                      |
|-------------|-------|--------------------------------------------------|
| `file_path` | `str` | The path to the JSON file to import the artifact from.|

**Usage Example:**

```python
imported_artifact = Artifact.import_from_json(file_path="artifact.json")
```

#### `get_metrics`

**Usage Example:**

```python
metrics = artifact.get_metrics()
```

#### `to_dict`

**Usage Example:**

```python
artifact_dict = artifact.to_dict()
```

#### `from_dict`

| Parameter | Type             | Description                                      |
|-----------|------------------|--------------------------------------------------|
| `data`    | `Dict[str, Any]` | The dictionary representation of the artifact.   |

**Usage Example:**

```python
artifact_data = {
    "file_path": "example.txt",
    "file_type": "txt",
    "contents": "File content",
    "versions": [],
    "edit_count": 0
}
artifact = Artifact.from_dict(artifact_data)
```

## Additional Information and Tips

- The `Artifact` class uses the `pydantic` library to handle data validation and serialization.
- When editing the artifact, ensure that the `file_path` is set correctly to avoid file operation errors.
- Use the `get_version` and `get_version_history` methods to maintain a clear audit trail of changes to the file.
- The `export_to_json` and `import_from_json` methods are useful for backing up and restoring the state of an artifact.

## References and Resources

- [Pydantic Documentation](https://pydantic-docs.helpmanual.io/)
- [Python os.path module](https://docs.python.org/3/library/os.path.html)
- [JSON Documentation](https://docs.python.org/3/library/json.html)

## Examples of Usage

### Example 1: Creating and Editing an Artifact

```python
from datetime import datetime
from pydantic import BaseModel, Field, validator
from typing import List, Dict, Any, Union
import os
import json

# Define FileVersion class
class FileVersion(BaseModel):
    version_number: int
    content: str
    timestamp: datetime

# Artifact class definition goes here

# Create an artifact
artifact = Artifact(file_path="example.txt", file_type="txt")
artifact.create(initial_content="Initial file content")

# Edit the artifact
artifact.edit(new_content="Updated file content")

# Save the artifact to a file
artifact.save()

# Load the artifact from the file
artifact.load()

# Print the current contents of the artifact
print(artifact.get_contents())

# Print the version history
print(artifact.get_version_history())
```

### Example 2: Exporting and Importing an Artifact

```python
# Export the artifact to a JSON file
artifact.export_to_json(file_path="artifact.json")

# Import

 the artifact from a JSON file
imported_artifact = Artifact.import_from_json(file_path="artifact.json")

# Print the metrics of the imported artifact
print(imported_artifact.get_metrics())
```

### Example 3: Converting an Artifact to and from a Dictionary

```python
# Convert the artifact to a dictionary
artifact_dict = artifact.to_dict()

# Create a new artifact from the dictionary
new_artifact = Artifact.from_dict(artifact_dict)

# Print the metrics of the new artifact
print(new_artifact.get_metrics())
```
